\input texinfo
@setfilename Users-Manual
@settitle Violet Volts Users' Manual
@documentencoding UTF-8
@copying
Copyright © 2014, Bruce-Robert Pocock.
@end copying

@documentdescription
A manual for players of the Violet Volts videogame.
Violet Volts is a persistent, multiplayer online videogame world.
@end documentdescription

@dircategory Games
@direntry
Violet Volts is a persistent, multiplayer online videogame world.
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title
@subtitle
@author
@end titlepage

@shortcontents

@node Prologue

The magical world of Tartaruchorum @footnote{@samp{tar-tar-oo-kor-um}}
is nearby to our own world.

The great tortoises discovered it, not so long ago. By wandering through
the elephants' graveyard, they enter into a world where tortoises can
walk, talk, and build entire villages.



@node Using the Controls

You can play Violet Volts using a mouse, touch-screen, or other pointing
device. You will also need a keyboard@footnote{If your computer or
device does not have a built-in keyboard, you may want to use an
attached keyboard, perhaps using a USB cable or Bluetooth connection.},
display, and speakers.

The typewriter section of your keyboard is used to talk to characters in
the game world. These characters may be other players or controlled
by computers. @xref{Conversations}

In the top-left corner of the screen is the Item box. This shows you
the item that you have equipped right now. @xref{Items}

In the top-right corner of the screen is the Action button. This button
may show you an action that you can perform on an object in the game
world when you approach it. @xref{Actions}

In the bottom of the screen is an area where you can compose what you
would like your character to say. The button beside it lets you review
what you've heard spoken to you recently, as well as things you've
recently said.

@node Mouse Basics

A mouse usually has three (or more) buttons, usually with the one in the
middle having a ``wheel'' on it that you can spin forwards and back.

To ``click'' on something, slide the mouse across your desk or table to
position the pointer arrow un the object, and press the main (normally,
left) button.

To ``drag'' something, slide the pointer arrow over the object, and then
@emph{press and hold down} the main button while you move the pointer to
a new location.

To ``pinch'' something, point to it and roll the mouse wheel
forwards. To ``stretch'' something, point to it and roll the mouse
wheel backwards.

@node Trackpad Basics

A trackpad may have one or more buttons beneath it. Some trackpads may
operate differently than the description here; check your computer's
settings or manual if these descriptions don't work for you.

To ``click'' on something, slide your finger to position the pointer
arrow over the object, and then quickly tap your finger on the trackpad.

To ``drag'' something, slide the pointer over the object, and then
@emph{quickly} tap your finger once, @emph{then just as quickly}, put
your finger down on the trackpad again, ane slide to the new location;
then, tap one last time.

To ``pinch'' something, place two fingers beside one another on the
trackpad and slide them from bottom to top; to ``stretch,'' slide two
fingers from top to bottom. On many computers, particularly Macintosh®
computers, the direction of pniching and stretching may be reversed.

@node Touch-screen Basics

To ``click'' on something, tap it once with your finger or stylus.

To ``drag'' something, put your finger down on the object, and
@emph{without lifting} your finger, move to its new location.

@node Getting Started

@node Items

@node Actions

@node Conversations

@node Meet The Characters

@node Sidekicks

@bye 
