\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename turtar-users-guide.info
@settitle Turtar Users' Guide
@c %**end of header
@copying
A handbook to exploring Tartaruchorum and Tootanga.

Copyright @copyright{} 2016  Bruce-Robert Fenn Pocock

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
A copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU
Free Documentation License''.

A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
Foundation Web site at @url{http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html}.

@end quotation

The document was typeset with
@uref{http://www.texinfo.org/, GNU Texinfo}.

@end copying

@titlepage
@title Turtar Users' Guide
@subtitle A handbook to exploring Tartaruchorum and Tootanga
@author Bruce-Robert Fenn Pocock <brpocock@@Star-Hope.org>
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@c Output the table of the contents at the beginning.
@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top, Chapter One, (dir), (dir)
@top Turtar Users' Guide

@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@c Generate the nodes for this menu with `C-c C-u C-m'.
@menu
* Chapter One::
* Installing the Turtar Program::
* Getting Started::
* Tartaruchorum::
* Tootanga::
* Copying This Manual::
* Index::

@detailmenu
 --- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Installing the Turtar Program

* Turtar on Linux Systems::
* Turtar on Microsoft Windows::

Turtar on Linux® Systems

* Turtar on Fedora::
* Turtar on Android::
* Turtar on Other Linux Systems::

Tartaruchorum

* The Major Cities::

Tootanga

* The Ghost Towns::
* The Shadowfalls::

Copying This Manual

* GNU Free Documentation License::  License for copying this manual.

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@c Update all node entries with `C-c C-u C-n'.
@c Insert new nodes with `C-c C-c n'.
@node Chapter One, Installing the Turtar Program, Top, Top
@chapter Introduction

@i{Turtar}  is a  fun new  online game  you can  play with  your friends
and  family! In  @i{Turtar},  you'll be  able to  explore  the world  of
Tartaruchorum, visit  the ancient elephant  graveyards on the  island of
Tootanga, and help  the Turtars --- a race of  intelligent tortoises ---
build their civilization.

@node  Installing the Turtar Program, Getting Started, Chapter One, Top
@chapter Installing the Turtar Program

First,  you'll  need  to  get  the  @i{Turtar}  game  program  for  your
system.@footnote{You  can  play  @i{Turtar}   on  a  personal  computer,
tablet, portable game  system, or some video game consoles  that hook up
to  your  TV.  No matter  what  kind  of  device  you're using  to  play
@i{Turtar}, we're going to call it ``your system'' in this manual.}

@menu
* Turtar on Linux Systems::
* Turtar on Microsoft Windows::
@end menu

@node Turtar on Linux Systems, Turtar on Microsoft Windows, Installing the Turtar Program, Installing the Turtar Program
@section Turtar on Linux® Systems

Turtar  can  be played  on  Linux®  systems on  personal
computers,  tablets,  portable game  systems,  video  game consoles,  or
other devices.

@menu
* Turtar on Fedora::
* Turtar on Android::
* Turtar on Other Linux Systems::
@end menu

@node Turtar on Fedora, Turtar on Android, Turtar on Linux Systems, Turtar on Linux Systems
@subsection Turtar on Fedora

If  your  system  runs  Fedora,  Red  Hat  Enterprise  Linux,  Community
Enterprise  Operating   System  (CentOS),   Scientific  Linux,   or  any
compatible system, you can install Turtar from our web site.

Hint: To check  your system type, click on the  top-right corner of your
screen  where the  volume control  and other  status icons  appear, then
click on the symbol that looks  like a crossed wrench and screwdriver to
bring up the @i{Settings} app. On  the bottom row, click @b{Details} and
you'll  see the  operating system  you're running.  Or, from  a Terminal
window, you can type @samp{cat /etc/system-release}.

To  add Turtar's  Software  Repository to  the  @i{Software} catalog  on
Fedora,          visit         the          web         site          at
@samp{http://turtar.adventuring.click/get/fedora/}   and    follow   the
on-screen instructions.

If you later  decide to remove @i{Turtar}, you can  use the @i{Software}
application to remove it.

To start @i{Turtar}, press the @t{Super}  key (often, this has a logo on
it, like  a penguin, an apple,  or a window) or  click @b{Activities} in
the top-left  corner of the  screen to  get to the  Activities Overview.
Then, either type @samp{Turtar} to locate  the app, or click the icon at
the bottom of the Dash that looks like nine small boxes to show all your
apps, and scroll down to find the @samp{Turtar} icon.

You  can keep  the @i{Turtar}  icon on  your Dash  all the  time if  you
right-click on it and pick @samp{Add to Favorites}.

@node Turtar on Android, Turtar on Other Linux Systems, Turtar on Fedora, Turtar on Linux Systems
@subsection Turtar on Android

If  your system  runs  Android,  you can  download  @i{Turtar} from  the
@i{Google Play}  or @i{Amazon  App Store}  markets, install  it directly
from our web site, or ``sideload'' it yourself.

If you use the @i{Google Play} or @i{Amazon App Store} markets, open the
market  app   on  your  system,   and  tap  the  Search   icon  (the
magnifying-glass).  Then, type  in  @i{Turtar Adventure}  and tap  the
``Go''  or  ``Search''  button.   Install  the  application  by  tapping
``Install'' and following the on-screen instructions.

If you use another market app, you may want to search it as well. We may
bring @i{Turtar} to other marketplaces.

If you don't use these market  apps, you can install @i{Turtar} directly
from our web site.  Open your web browser on your  Android system and go
to  @samp{http://turtar.adventuring.click/get/android/}  and follow  the
on-screen instructions.

To              ``sideload''              @i{Turtar},              visit
@samp{http://turtar.adventuring.click/get/android/}  on   your  PC  with
sideloading software and download the Android Package (@samp{apk}) file.
Use  your  sideloading  software  to  ``push''  the  package  onto  your
Android system.

Once you've installed  @i{Turtar}, you can find the icon  to start it in
your applications menu, which you  usually access from your Home screen.
You can  probably press your finger  on the icon  and hold it for  a few
seconds  to  drag  the  icon   from  the  applications  menu  onto  your
Home screen. 

@node Turtar on Other Linux Systems,  , Turtar on Android, Turtar on Linux Systems
@subsection Turtar on Other Linux Systems

To  install @i{Turtar}  on  any Linux®  system based  on
either  @i{Red  Hat  Package  Manager} (@samp{rpm})  or  the  @i{Debian}
operating system  (including @i{Ubuntu}),  you can download  and compile
@i{Turtar} yourself using a few (relatively) simple steps. This may also
work on other Linux® systems, but you'll have to install
the required tools and libraries yourself.

Visit    @samp{http://turtar.adventuring.click/get/linux-source/}    and
follow the on-screen instructions. For most users, all you'll need to do
is open a Terminal window, and type:

@sample
curl http://turtar.adventuring.click/download/linux-source.sh | bash
@end sample

Note that the symbol @t{|} is  the vertical bar character, not a one,
ell, or  exclamation mark. (On  a US  English keyboard, it's  typed with
@t{Shift} + @t{Backslash}.)

If you install @i{Turtar} in this way, you'll end up with a folder named
@t{Turtar} in your Home folder.  Keep this folder. To update @i{Turtar},
or remove it,  you'll need the contents of the  folder intact. The icons
to start, update, or remove @i{Turtar} will be inside that folder.

@node Turtar on Microsoft Windows,  , Turtar on Linux Systems, Installing the Turtar Program
@section Turtar on Microsoft Windows

If your system runs Microsoft Windows,  you can download Turtar from our
web site.

Visit  @samp{http://turtar.adventuring.click/get/win64/} and  follow the
on-screen instructions to download the latest @t{Turtar Setup.exe} file.
When the file has been downloaded, you'll need to open the file.

The  @t{Turtar  Setup.exe}  program  will  then  install  @i{Turtar}  on
your system. It will also add @i{Turtar} to your @t{Start} menu.

@node Getting Started, Tartaruchorum, Installing the Turtar Program, Top
@chapter Getting Started

@node Tartaruchorum, Tootanga, Getting Started, Top
@chapter Tartaruchorum

@menu
* The Major Cities::
@end menu

@node The Major Cities,  , Tartaruchorum, Tartaruchorum
@section The Major Cities


@node Tootanga, Copying This Manual, Tartaruchorum, Top
@chapter Tootanga

@menu
* The Ghost Towns::
* The Shadowfalls::
@end menu

@node The Ghost Towns, , Tootanga, Tootanga
@section The Ghost Towns

Tootanga was once the home to a  race of magical elephants, who used the
power of the Wishing Wells of Tootanga to build their civilization.

Over time, however, a powerful  evil force overcame these elephants, and
they  disappeared from  the land.  Now,  Tootanga is  dotted with  ghost
towns, abandoned long  ago in the losing battle against  the forces from
the Shadowfalls.

You might wish  to explore the ghost towns of  Tootanga. Perhaps someone
can discover how to  unlock the power of the Wishing  Wells and undo the
shadowy curses that destroyed the land.

@node The Shadowfalls,  , The Ghost Towns, Tootanga
@section The Shadowfalls

A  place of  dark  magic, the  Shadowfalls are  found  in the  northeast
of Tootanga.  This was once  the seat of power  of an evil  sorcerer who
destroyed  the elephant  civilization  of Tootanga  in  his attempts  to
obtain the power of the Wishing Wells.

Ultimately, though, that  sorcerer was unsuccessful. While  he did curse
the  Wishing   Wells,  he  was   never  able  to  unlock   their  power.
The destruction that  his minions wrought across Tootanga  is still very
visible today, though.


@node Copying This Manual, Index, Tootanga, Top
@appendix Copying This Manual

@menu
* GNU Free Documentation License::  License for copying this manual.
@end menu

@c Get fdl.texi from http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html
@include fdl.texi

@node Index,  , Copying This Manual, Top
@unnumbered Index

@printindex cp

@bye

@c turtar-users-guide.texi ends here
